Welcome back to this lecture unnamed entity recognition.
Named entity recognition or any are for short seeks to locate and classify named entity mentions in
unstructured text into pre-defined categories such as the person names organizations locations medical
codes time expression's quantities percentages monetary values etc..
So lots of different different types of Reyk entities that can be recognized here and space is going
to do this automatically for us.
So for example our goal would be to read in a raw text such as Jim bought 300 shares of Acme core in
2006 and then add additional any attacks.
So understand that Jim is a person or Acme core is an organization or that 2006 2006s time and for more
complex data and see recognition we can add even more tags like understanding.
Three hundred is a amount of something or.
Refers to stock shares.
So we're going explore names and see recognition of space.
It does name recognition really really well even on its own.
But we're also going to learn how to add our own custom entities.
If you're working for a custom text data set there may be some entities that are pretty unique to your
data set.
You may want to add in as your own entity.
Let's go ahead and jump to Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK.
In a brand new documents or a notebook I've imported Spacey and imported space's load in core web apps.
Next we're going to do just write a function to display basic entity information.
We're going to write a function called show eant.
Yes it's going to accept a document and we'll say if Doc Yes.
Meaning if it actually has named entities will say for every entity in Doc and yes we're going to print
out the entity text plus a space and a dash and then we'll say print out the entities label label underscore
and then we'll also put in the explanation.
So we're saying add in the string Spacey explain and we'll have to explain that label for us.
OK so else if that doesn't actually occur.
So say coming back to this original if statement.
Let me zoom out just a little bit here so you can see the whole thing.
So we're saying OK if there's actually entities will print out the text that's the label an explanation
of the s else.
If there are no entities we're just going to print out no entities found.
OK so there is a show entity function.
Now we're going to say is our document is equal to and let's specifically do something that has the
entities something like.
Make sure that you said that string will say something like.
Hi how are you.
Then we'll pass and show ense on that document.
And we say no entity is found.
So now let's add in a document that we know should have entities.
So we will say in LP passing the unicode string I will say May I go to Washington DC.
Next May to see the.
I will say Washington Monument
questionmark and Naledge show the entities on that document.
And notice here it picked up three entities it picked up Washington DC as some sort of location like
a country a city or a state it picked up next May so those not just made but next May as a date and
also the Washington Monument as some sort of company agency or institution otherwise tagged with o r
g.
So there's various entity annotations and if you take a look at parts of speech tagging you come over
to named entity recognition.
We provide a table of these.
Just scroll down and you'll see the various entity annotations and the tokens fans come with their own
set of annotations so you can see the edited text.
The entity types hash value the entity types.
String description.
You can also grab the start and stop index positions as well as the start and stop in addition for the
actual character.
So notice one is the token span's and one is the actual entity text.
Ok so I want to come back to our original documents here and if you wanted to you could do something
like put another documents.
Let's just see how it can perform.
A couple of other entities will say something like.
Can I please have $500 of Microsoft stock will say show ense on that documents and here it says $500.
No it's smart enough to understand that this number and dollars go together.
It's some sort of monetary value.
And then Microsoft is some sort of again company agency or institution.
There are quite a wide variety of named entity recognition tags.
And again in this notebook we provide a table of them for you so there's persons buildings airports
highways companies countries objects vehicles foods things like products.
There's events laws work of arts languages percentages money quantities et cetera.
So we have descriptions and examples for you so you can check out that table super useful as a reference.
Now let's imagine that we want to add a named entity to a span.
Now normally we would have Spacey build a library of named entities by training it on several samples
of text.
But in this case we only want to add one value sort of come back appear to our own notebook and we're
going to create a new document.
And this document is just going to be just to build a UK factory for 6 million people million right.
And let's go ahead and run show entities on that particular document.
So right now it's understanding that UK is some sort of country city or state and that 6 million dollars
refers to money.
But what's interesting is right now Spacey as a named entity isn't recognizing Tesla.
We saw Tesla before in a previous example and it was able to realize that Tesla was a proper noun but
it actually doesn't know that here referring to Tesla as a company.
So it would be nice if we could tell Spacey Hey Tesla should be an orc it company agency or institution
that's going to be super useful for your own custom text data sets where you have to find things maybe
like a specific product name.
So we'll come back up here and we'll say from speccy tokens import spam and then we'll say org is equal
to Doc dot vocab strings and then grab the unicode string for cup.
RG The Sea Organization entity label.
So right now or right here.
This is actually the hash value of the orch entity label.
Next I want to create a span for the new entity so I will say my new entity is equal to a span pass
in that document.
And I know where the new entity is.
It's the very first word here first token.
So we're going to say go from 0 up to and including one and then give that the label for.
Which is again this hash value.
Now your index solutions may change depending on where actual tokin happens to be.
And I want to add the entity to the existing document object.
I'll say DMCE E.A. us is equal to list.
Doc E.A. and then I'm going to add on a new item.
Which is my new entity.
And technically you could also use a pen here.
So keep in mind in this code above here these four documents doc is the name of the document object
0 is the star index position of the span.
One is a stop in the exposition of the span Xclusive.
So essentially from 0 to 1 you're describing 0 and then label is the label assigned to our entity.
So now if I show Aunty's on that documents it now recognizes that Tesla should be a company agency or
institution.
All right.
So that's it for part 1 of this lecture in this part one.
We went over how to actually show entities by calling in ts for a list of entities.
And we also show you the various attributes and call off an entity tag.
So remember the attributes and call are the text the label the hash value label and then label underscore
which is the string description and the start and end of the token and the actual characters.
And again here all the any are tags that you can access.
And if you want an explanation of them all you need to do is print out Spacey that explain that particular
entity label.
Coming up next we're going to talk about is adding named entities not just to a span but if you scroll
down here we're going to talk about in part two.
Adding the entities to all matching spans.
So if we wanted to attack all occurrences of something like Tesla so we can continue right where we
left off on part two in the next lecture.
I'll see it there.